manuscript/Chapter2.md, before:



# What next?

You can now start exploring Dyalog APL on the Pi.

If you're running a Pi model 3 you will may be pleasantly surprised at the responsiveness of this very
inexpensive setup. [Morten Kromberg was!](http://www.dyalog.com/blog/2017/01/morse-code-revisited-using-the-bbc-microbit/)

The Pi version is a full implementation of Dyalog APL.
If you're a current Dyalog user you should find the environment very familiar.
If, like me, you're coming back to APL after a period of absence, you might want to take a look at some of the
resources described [here](http://www.dyalog.com/dyalog/raspberry-pi.htm).

##Physical computing

There's not enough space in this guide to cover the ways in which you can do Physical Computing from APL on the Pi
(driving LEDs and motors, and sensing the real world). You can read some details on 
[Morten Kromberg's blog](http://www.dyalog.com/blog/), and I hope to publish a guide to the topic
if there's enough demand.

##Other resources

If you're new to Linux you may also want to get up to speed with Raspbian, the version of Linux that you'll be
using with the Pi. There's a good book: Raspberry Pi User Guide by Eben Upton and Gareth Halfacree which you can find
on Amazon and elsewhere. Make sure you get the Second Edition!
 
There's a helpful forum on the [Raspberry Pi website](https://www.raspberrypi.org/), along with a lot of other
resources.
 
There's a monthly magazine called [the MagPi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi/).
You can get it [free in pdf format](https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi/issues/), but if you subscribe to the printed
version you'll get a free Raspberry Pi zero!

### Use the slack channel and support forum

There's a slack channel for discussing APL. You need an invitation to join. You can ask for an invitation, or
ask questions about Dyalog, on the [Dyalog Support Forum](http://www.dyalog.com/forum/).
You'll need to register before you can post.

### Join the email list

Dyalog have a mailing list which they will use to keep Pi users informed of new resources.
You can [join it here](http://www.dyalog.com/dyalog/raspberry-pi.htm#subscribe).

## Have fun!

I hope you'll have as much fun with the Pi as I do!

Commit message:

Started to extend Ch 2 to coder the RIDE.

manuscript/Chapter2.md, after:



# What next?

You can now start exploring Dyalog APL on the Pi.

If you're running a Pi model 3 you will may be pleasantly surprised at the responsiveness of this very
inexpensive setup. [Morten Kromberg was!](http://www.dyalog.com/blog/2017/01/morse-code-revisited-using-the-bbc-microbit/)

The Pi version is a full implementation of Dyalog APL.
If you're a current Dyalog user you should find the environment very familiar.
If, like me, you're coming back to APL after a period of absence, you might want to take a look at some of the
resources described [here](http://www.dyalog.com/dyalog/raspberry-pi.htm). You'l also find a quick guide to getting
started with RIDE below.

## Three ways to RIDE

You'll enjoy using Dyalog APL with the RIDE. It's an intuitive development with a lot of powerful features, and as of
version 4.0 it runs on Raspberry Pi models 2 and 3. You can also run it on another computer to connect to an APL interpreter
that's running on the Pi.

There are three ways you can use RIDE with APL on the Pi:
1. If you have a Pi model 2 or 3 with a mouse, keyboard and monitor, you can use the RIDE on the Pi.
1. If you have a Pi model 2 or 3 with VNC enabled, you can use the VNC client on a remote computer to run a RIDE session
on the Pi, even if the Pi hasn't got a keyboard, mouse or monitor. You can find ddetauls of VNC in Appendix A; once
VNC access is set up, you'll use the RIDE in the same ways as option 1 above.
1. If you have *any* model of Pi with network access you can use the RIDE on a networked computer to run APL on the Pi.
That's a great way to connect to and control a Pi robot.

### Running the RIDE on the PI

### Running the RIDE remotely

##Physical computing

There's not enough space in this guide to cover the ways in which you can do Physical Computing from APL on the Pi
(driving LEDs and motors, and sensing the real world). You can read some details on 
[Morten Kromberg's blog](http://www.dyalog.com/blog/), and I hope to publish a guide to the topic
if there's enough demand.

##Other resources

If you're new to Linux you may also want to get up to speed with Raspbian, the version of Linux that you'll be
using with the Pi. There's a good book: Raspberry Pi User Guide by Eben Upton and Gareth Halfacree which you can find
on Amazon and elsewhere. Make sure you get the Second Edition!
 
There's a helpful forum on the [Raspberry Pi website](https://www.raspberrypi.org/), along with a lot of other
resources.
 
There's a monthly magazine called [the MagPi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi/).
You can get it [free in pdf format](https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi/issues/), but if you subscribe to the printed
version you'll get a free Raspberry Pi zero!

### Use the slack channel and support forum

There's a slack channel for discussing APL. You need an invitation to join. You can ask for an invitation, or
ask questions about Dyalog, on the [Dyalog Support Forum](http://www.dyalog.com/forum/).
You'll need to register before you can post.

### Join the email list

Dyalog have a mailing list which they will use to keep Pi users informed of new resources.
You can [join it here](http://www.dyalog.com/dyalog/raspberry-pi.htm#subscribe).

## Have fun!

I hope you'll have as much fun with the Pi as I do!
